# Annotation Explorer
## AQUAVIEW Annotation Explorer
The annotation explorer is focused on retrieving actual data (currently .jpgs) from the associated expeditions via the labels on the information. These labels are currently provided through Hyperion Technology Group's (HTG) work on their annotation application and pushed back to the AQUAVIEW database via a Python script. The HTG Data Annotation Engine is built off of the opensource (MIT License) LabelImg software available here: https://github.com/heartexlabs/labelImg The LabelImg software was unable to provide many of the quality of life functions that were desired by the Hyperion team, so it was extended to support options like interpolation of annotations in video data, pushing annotations from one image to another, tracking unique object instances, and in application image editing that did not alter the underlying raw data. Specific to the work on AQUAVIEW, the team created a branch that is able to interact with the database that has been developed within the MongoDB environment. At this point the team is able to query for data from the AQUAVIEW database, download the corresponding data from the AWS S3 bucket, collect any prior data annotations, augment those annotations or create new ones, and then push the changes back to the AQUAVIEW database for other users to utilize. Presently, only bounding boxes are supported for the creation of annotations within the tool and the data to represent these bounding boxes are formatted to be consistent with the YOLO annotation format; [x_center, y_center, width, height]. This makes it easy to convert the bounding box information if a different format is desired for use in an external application. Additionally, the team has implemented the ability to limit the labels attached to an annotation to only those provided in a well maintained source, the World Register of Marine Species (WoRMS) database. By using this database we can ensure that users will not utilize multiple labels for the same object and we can track changes to names as they occur and are updated in the WoRMS database.

The basic application diagram can be seen in the image below:
